At this point this is what you should see so the menu items and everything on the left on the right
and on the top is translated in the desired language.
So currently our default happens to be Spanish.
And in this lecture will add two links to the top menu for authenticated users to view the profile his
own profile of course and editing his own profile.
Also we'll modify the database to store the locale on the User model and then we'll also modify the
forum to choose their preferred language for the user.
So let's go.
So you should have the layout.
Blade beach be open and let's copy those links for simplicity.
They have to go to this ls blog because this is for guests and as indicated users.
And well this ls blog is for people that have logged in
so we need to create a link to the user's profile so it is users show for viewing the user profile.
Now this accepts our parameters.
So this would be inside an array and the parameter name.
If you remember each user we can read the user using the alpha side so our user does method I.D..
Now this is getting too long so let's reformat that a little bit.
Okay.
Now we have to close this array and close the root code and let's add this text to the next line.
Okay now you can copy that again because the second link would be very similar but of course it's not
hard.
This would be a profile.
Now this text is edit profile and the link in this case is not show it is.
Edit And of course it also accepts are user parameters.
So save the changes and now let's see if that works.
So I'm not authenticated.
So let's logging as John Doe.
So I have the spare field.
EDIT added data profile.
Okay so it works now in the editing profile form will need another field but before we added let's first
create a migration for the user.
So let's open the terminal and run.
Peach be artisan.
Make migration add low color to users sorry to users.
Table.
So at this point we can close the layout and terminal.
Now let's locate this brand new migration.
It would be as usual in the same folder.
So we have the scaffold and what we do is table.
Sorry table string.
Because this would be us string column.
Call it local.
And the length.
Well let's give it free characters.
That should be enough and of course finally we do table drop column and column is local.
Now before we run this migration we actually might do with a default.
So default.
Let's say this would be English okay.
Now we can run P2P artisan migrate and well we should have this local column on our users table right
now.
Okay so let's close this migration and proceed with the actual editing of the user profile so this happens
inside the user controller.
So let's open it now.
So this one displays the form so we'll have to add a field so maybe actually let's open this forum OK
so this is this one.
Now what do we have here.
There is the name and well basically the field to upload an image.
So we have to first somehow show what are the languages available.
Now let's define them on the user model so we can add a constant here.
So public const localities look at this.
Yeah makes sense.
OK.
And what we will do is their language code will be a key.
So E N and then we need a label because we'll use that for forms so English now E as this would actually
well let it be in the in the language.
Well in the actual language.
So it's Espanol for German.
Let it be Deutsche OK.
So now we'll use this public constant that we have defined on the user model inside the form.
So let's add another field.
We can start by just copying this div element
so this would be our language.
And now instead of the input we'll have select.
So this will be a list of options to pick up from.
So this select needs are bootstrap class.
So that is form control and the name would be as the field name so local.
Now to display all these languages we can use that for each directive and we'll iterate over up user
locals as local.
That's the actual key.
So e n e as the E and a label the label to actually display this inside a form.
So end for each and for every element inside this array will display an option with a value that would
be sorry I need to surround that we've currently braces OK.
So this would be local
now.
Close the tag and inside it we'll just echo the label now.
Additionally since this is ah well I select.
So if the user has already selected our preferred language we should somehow display it or select it
so we can do that by checking if the user Loco is different than loco
if it is different than the local that we are currently processing.
We don't do anything.
But otherwise we'll echo select it so that some HDMI attribute that we all echo which will select the
user that actually has the local that was selected so we iterate over each of the locals.
And if the user is actually user local it's actually the same as the one we are iterating over.
Then we'll echo select that.
Okay that's fine.
Now let's check if this actually works.
So it should because we have everyone is now with English by default because we have added English as
the default language.
Now let users now let's add this possibility for the user to actually modify their language.
So this update method has our custom request class which is called update user and lets open it.
So it might make sense to add some validation rules for the language to be chosen.
So no one will post a language that we do not support.
So let's add another one this will be low local.
So another validation rule and now something interesting.
So normally so far we have written those validation rules just as strings but since this time we actually
want to read one of those values from the locals constant on the user model and we actually want only
the keys.
Then we'll have to do that differently.
So how can you do that.
In this cases are you can add an array where the first key would be required.
So we just surround all those validation rules instead of using this character to split them.
We are using an array where every element would be another rule.
So there is this rule class which has an in method and well what this will do is it will check if the
value is in some specific set and our set is actually the user model up user locales.
But since this will actually check for the labels.
So English Espanol Deutsch we actually want the keys and to get the keys we can use that peach B or
A keys.
Function
okay so this would be it.
Now we have the validation rules defined.
Let's go back to the controller.
So this the whole chunk this if statement is only for File Uploading now we should have the request
validated at this point.
So we are certain that someone has submitted a language and that it is valid.
So one of the languages that we support.
So we can just set user local to request get local and user save
now we can also change this message to profile was updated because now we can also change their user
local case so let's refresh that.
And well you see that this user with I.T. one has the English.
So let's now change it to Spanish.
Now it is Spanish if you refer as you can see that the Spanish is selected and then to German and also
there is the German.
So if you log out log in again.
Now we are just verifying that it works.
Let's go to profile editing and you can see German was selected of course the page is still in Spanish
or the default language that you have set.
And this is because we only store this value inside the database.
So that was the first part.
Only in the next lecture we will actually implement this functionality so the user chosen language is
automatically picked up when he logs in.
And also another thing that lets you change the language on the fly depending on the URL you are using
to visit the pages.
So let's do that in the next lecture.